---
title: Bye 2024, and hello 2025
description: 2024 is already coming to an end, and the beginning of winter is almost here. Perhaps it’s time to reflect on this year and look forward to the next.  
pubDate: 2024-11-26
lastModDate: ''
toc: true
share: true
ogImage: true
---

2024 is already coming to an end, and the beginning of winter is almost here. Perhaps it’s time to reflect on this year and look forward to the next.  
Whenever I recall the past, it’s always accompanied by some regrets and unmet expectations. For example, in 2024, life still feels stuck in the mire of economic downturn, and I haven’t seen the enthusiasm and hopes for the future that I had at the start of the year.  
Let’s simply reflect and summarize.
### Some Thoughts on AI
Although we’ve been through the AI revolution, with claims that AI will replace jobs in design, programming, copywriting, and many other industries, only a few have truly been able to seize this opportunity. In my view, the advent of GPT-4 has indeed shaken all industries. Local large models like Llama and Qwen are gradually surpassing GPT applications. Perhaps in the future, AI can help us do more and more things.  
I’ve looked through a few tutorials on using Stable Diffusion and ComfyUI. While I’m not an expert, it has given me a new perspective on AI.  
AI should perhaps be considered as an assistant for our learning, progress, and work. We shouldn’t demonize it, but we also shouldn’t overly rely on it.  
For instance, I now use AI tools to assist me in generating images for my designs because some images are hard to find through search engines. I also use AI to help generate design inspiration, UI image placeholders, and other related data. I see these as tools that help me with my work, and what I need to improve on is using AI to fill in my gaps.  
I remember being interested in many fields, and in the past, obtaining knowledge was costly and limited. You either had to buy paid online courses or scan a book in the bookstore. But now, for example, when I write a CSS code and it doesn’t achieve the desired effect, I can turn to AI for help.  
When I encounter errors while setting up a NAS or fiddling with Docker, I can also ask AI for solutions.  
**Maybe AI is really a great opportunity to make us stronger.**
#### The Source of Freedom
Yes, the day I imagined finally arrived, even a bit unexpectedly. I left the comfort zone I had been in for seven years, accompanied by some uncontrollable and frustrating factors, and returned to a life of freedom.  
Leaving the comfort zone might also be a valuable life experience. During this period of rest, I underwent a psychological transformation from relaxation to anxiety, deeply experiencing the life conditions of those who are unemployed online.  
In this time, I gained temporary freedom—not having to think about commuting or clocking in every day, no longer enduring the disapproval and mockery from superiors, and no longer maintaining complicated relationships with colleagues. However, this freedom also came with the pressure of losing my income, which made me truly realize the importance of economic independence and the sense of security that a job brings. This experience not only enriched my life, but also provided me with valuable space for reflection, making me cherish the opportunities I have in my future career, and remain more positive when facing challenges.  
After all, making money on your own can still feel a bit desperate.  
And soon, freedom brought me anxiety—no responses to resume submissions, very few job openings in the selection process. These things made me lose sleep. While I still have some hope that I’ll eventually find a job, these days have prompted some reflection.  
**Perhaps, to truly be free, one needs a kind of unflinching calm to face all changes.**  
Eventually, I found a job, which seems rather ordinary. So, I still need to maintain a sense of crisis and find my true direction.
#### Attempting Advancement
Learning still depends on self-motivation, which comes from pursuing goals. I applied for an MBA, although I know that with my current time and energy, it may be difficult—especially with my weaker math skills, which will be hard to improve in the short term. But I still tried. I feel that my logic is okay. What I need to cultivate in a short time is my self-discipline and drive. I think the real purpose is to use this opportunity to strengthen and drive myself.

#### Outlook for 2025
Actually, I review a bit every year. 2024, overall, has been a low point and turning point in my career. Perhaps it was also an opportunity for self-reflection, to look at what I have gained over the years and where I still need to improve.  
So, what about 2025?  
I think I’ll focus on the following points:
- Continue learning and cultivate self-motivation.
- Make up for the weak areas in my MBA courses.
- Gradually develop self-discipline and make it a habit.
- Find a side job, expand my abilities. If the future is bound to be filled with thorns and difficulties, so be it—still, I must keep pushing forward.
- The goal is to pass the MBA exam.
**A simple outlook, a modest wish, to the self of 2025.**
